The inequality assessment has been done using Gini Coefficient in Python Language at Jupyter Network. All inequality assessment (spatial and temporal) conduted separately.
In order to run optimized LSTM model in Python environment, firstly the best Sequence Length for having best R-squared result was conduted. Then, LSTM model implemented based on the Sequence Length. 
Abstract:
Climate change both influences and is influenced by human activities in urban environments. Numerous studies highlight significant inequalities across metropolises in terms of social, economic, environmental, and other urban indicators. In metropolitan areas, climatic differences that create microclimates are becoming a common phenomenon, driving parts of cities to experience comparative weather comfort. In this study, we explore the association between microclimatic features and inhabitants’ socio-economics and mobilities. Using Tehran as a case study, we carry out an inequality assessment and analyze its correlation to six meteorological (microclimatic) parameters and eight SoEM indicators. We use the machine learning method Long Short-term Memory (LSTM) to estimate these relationships, selecting indicators through a bibliographic literature review. The Gini coefficient results indicate significant inequality in both datasets' indicators. The results exhibit strong associations for the travel generation rate and temperature, moderate associations between housing price and mean temperature, and weak associations between “Employment” and “Fixed Assets”. We find the strongest predictors of meteorological parameters to be “Civic Participation in”, “Trip Generation”, “Housing Price’, and Female Employment”. These findings indicate that there is a co-occurrence phenomenon in microclimatic and SoEM inequality in Tehran—a fact that reveals the reason behind the stark difference between the northern and southern regions of Tehran, particularly the issue of climate gentrification. Moreover, it demonstrates how data-driven models like LSTM can uncover complex indirect associations between urban factors and microclimatic patterns—paving the way for more targeted and equitable adaptation efforts.
